01 Define the Bayesian interpretation of probability.

ans1 Bayesian probability is an interpretation of the concept of probability, in which, instead of frequency or propensity of some phenomenon, probability is interpreted as reasonable expectation representing a state of knowledge or as quantification of a personal belief


02.Define probability of a union of two events with equation.

ans P(A or B) = P(A) + P(B). The chance of any (one or more) of two or more events occurring is called the union of the events. The probability of the union of disjoint events is the sum of their individual probabilities.

03.What is joint probability? What is its formula?

ansJoint probability is the product of the individual probabilities of independent events. Mathematically, P(A and B) = P(A) x P(B). The probability of A times the probability of B equals the joint probability of A and B happening at the same time.

04.What is chain rule of probability?

ans The chain rule of probability states that the probability of multiple events occurring together can be calculated by multiplying the conditional probabilities of each event given the previous events in the chain.

05.What is conditional probability means? What is the formula of it?


ans Conditional probability is a measure of the probability of an event occurring, given that another event has already occurred. It represents the likelihood of one event happening, given the information or knowledge about the occurrence of another event.

The formula for conditional probability is:

P(A | B) = P(A and B) / P(B)



06.What are continuous random variables?

ans. Continuous random variables are variables that can take on any value within a specific range or interval. Unlike discrete random variables, which can only take on distinct values, continuous random variables can take on an infinite number of values within their defined range.

work with continuous random variables using various libraries, such as NumPy and SciPy. The SciPy library, in particular, provides functionality for working with probability distributions of continuous random variables.


07.What are Bernoulli distributions? What is the formula of it?

ans.The Bernoulli distribution is a discrete probability distribution that models a random experiment with two possible outcomes: success and failure. It is named after Swiss mathematician Jacob Bernoulli.

P(X = k) =
p, if k = 1 (success)
1-p, if k = 0 (failure)

08.What is binomial distribution? What is the formula?


ans The binomial distribution is a discrete probability distribution that models the number of successes in a fixed number of independent Bernoulli trials. It is used when each trial has two possible outcomes: success or failure, and the probability of success remains the same for each trial. The outcomes of the trials are assumed to be independent of each other.



P(X = k) =
C(n, k) * p^k * (1-p)^(n-k)


09.What is Poisson distribution? What is the formula?

ans The Poisson distribution is a discrete probability distribution that models the number of events occurring within a fixed interval of time or space, given a known average rate of occurrence. It is commonly used to describe rare events that happen independently of each other.


P(X = k) = (e^(-λ) * λ^k) / k!

10. Define covariance.
 
ans Covariance defines the directional association between the variables. Covariance values range from -inf to +inf where a positive value denotes that both the variables move in the same direction and a negative value denotes that both the variables move in opposite directions.


11.Define correlation

ans,correlation() method in Python is used to return Pearson's correlation coefficient between two inputs. The Pearson's correlation formula is: Where: r = The correlation coefficient. It is usually between -1 (negative correlation) and +1 (positive correlation).


12.Define sampling with replacement. Give example.

ansA sampling unit (like a glass bead or a row of data) being randomly drawn from a population (like a jar of beads or a dataset).
Recording which sampling unit was drawn.
Returning the sampling unit to the population.

we have a bag containing five colored balls: red, blue, green, yellow, and orange. We want to select three balls from the bag using sampling with replacement.

First, we randomly select a ball from the bag. Let's say we pick the red ball.
We record the color of the ball and put it back into the bag.
Next, we randomly select another ball from the bag. This time, we could select the blue ball, even though we previously selected the red ball. After recording its color, we put it back into the bag.
We repeat the process for the third selection. Let's say we randomly select the red ball again.
Our final selection consists of three balls: red, blue, and red.


13.What is sampling without replacement? Give example.

ans Sampling without replacement is a method of selecting items or observations from a population, where each selected item is not returned to the population before the next selection. Once an item is selected, it is removed from the population and cannot be chosen again in subsequent selections. This ensures that each selected item is unique within the sample.


Suppose we have a deck of playing cards containing 52 cards. We want to select five cards from the deck using sampling without replacement.

Initially, we have a full deck of 52 cards.
We randomly select a card from the deck. Let's say we pick the Ace of Spades.
We record the selected card and remove it from the deck.
Next, we randomly select another card from the remaining 51 cards in the deck. Suppose we pick the Queen of Hearts.
We continue this process, selecting three more cards without replacement until we have a sample of five unique cards.


14.What is hypothesis? Give example.

ans Hypothesis is an advanced testing library for Python. It lets you write tests which are parametrized by a source of examples, and then generates simple and comprehensible examples that make your tests fail. This lets you find more bugs in your code with less work.

from hypothesis import given
from hypothesis import strategies as st


def sort_list(lst):
    return sorted(lst)

@given(st.lists(st.integers()))
def test_sorting_property(lst):
    sorted_lst = sort_list(lst)
    assert sorted_lst == sorted(sorted_lst)
test_sorting_property()
